Before you start, identify the x1, y1, z1, x2, y2, z2 co-ordinates you wish to process from your selected world file.

***To export a schematic:
1) Launch MCEdit

2) Select the world you wish to utilize from the left hand panel and pick "Edit".

3) Make sure "Select" mode is toggled from the left side toolbar.

4) Switch to "Over" view (top left corner of the map window where the options are "2D" "Over" and "Cam").

5) You may want to scroll the view window over the area you are about to clip and wait until it has loaded fully before proceeding.

6) On the left side of the window there is a co-ordinate selection space
	Enter the Start and Stop X, Y and Z co-ordinates.
	eg: X: x1 to x2
	    Y: y1 to y2
	    Z: z1 to z2
	If you are using negative numbers the lowest number goes in 1st column.

7) From the top menu, select "Import/Export" -> "Export Schematic"

8) Locate where you wish to save your schematic and give it a filename "yourfilename.schematic", the press "Save". It might be simplest to just export it to the folder where you have the .jar of our submission stored. Note: geneated files will also end up in this folder.

9) Close the world file or exit MCEdit at this point to complete the process.


***To process the schematic:
1) From a command-prompt, change directory to the locaton where the SettlementGenerator.jar file is stored.

2) Run the .jar file with this command:
	java -jar SettlementGenerator.jar yourfilename.schematic
		(use the name you gave the output file in place of "yourfilename").

3) When the program completes you will have the following output:
	A file named "yourfilename-settlement.schematic". This is the file you will import into MCEdit.
	A disposable folder named ".\yourfilename-settlement-report\". This folder holds informational reporting elements generated by the tool. These are not necessary to keep, but you might enjoy examining them. There are three HTML files in the folder: index.html, landforms.html, and subdivisions.html. The images in the folder support these three pages.


***To import a schematic:
1) Launch MCEdit

2) Select the world you wish to utilize from the left hand panel and pick "Edit".

3) Make sure "Move" mode is toggled from the left side toolbar.

4) switch to "Over" view (top left corner of the map window where the options are "2D" "Over" and "Cam").

5) You may want to scroll the view window over the area you are about to past into and wait until it has loaded fully before proceeding.

6) From the top menu, select "Import/Export" -> "Import"

7) Select the "yourfilename-settlement.schematic" file created by the SettlementGenerator.jar program.

8) on the left side of the window there is a co-ordinate selection space.
	Enter ONLY the Start X, Y and Z co-ordinates.
	eg. X: x1
	    Y: y1
	    Z: z1

9) Enable the "Copy Air" check box at the bottom of this form.

10) Press "Confirm".

11) After MCEdit completes processing, from the top menu, select "MCEdit" -> "Save World".

12) Close the world file or exit MCEdit at this point to complete the process.



